Try repeated augment for rationals
- do better by least common denominator
for reals
- super sad—can't even guarantee termination
### Greedy Paths
Let's try finding the *best* augmenting path (*henceforth abbreviate AP*), by binary searching for the bottleneck edge and running DFS. This way we capture at least $\frac{1}{m}$ of the remaining max-flow, i.e. we finish in $m^{2}\log nU$.
### Scaling Max Flow
Inspired by rounding real numbers to rationals, we round integers to $2^{i}$.

Repeatedly roll in smaller and smaller order bits. Each time we double all the capacities and sometimes add 1. Then the previous min cut now becomes at most $m$, so we run Augmenting Path $m$ times and we get optimal.

Each AP is $O(m)$ so total runtime is now $O(m^{2}\log (nU))$. Weird but often good cuz $U$ can be small.
### Edmonds-Karp
Instead of taking any AP, we always add the *shortest* one.

> [!important] Claim
> No vertex gets closer to $s$ or $t$ when we take residual of shortest AP. 

Suppose otherwise; of all $v$ that got closer to $s$ take the now-closest one. Let its predecessor on current path be $w$. Then
$$
\begin{align*}
d'(v)&=d'(w)+1,\\
d'(w)&\geq d(w).
\end{align*}
$$
But if $w\to v$ existed before, then $d(v)\leq d(w)+1$ i.e. $d'(v)\geq d(v)$, contradiction.

Hence $w\to v$ was created "just now" i.e. previous path went $v\to w$ i.e. $d(w)=d(v)+1$. Then $d'(v)=d'(w)+1\geq d(w)+1=d(v)+2$. Wow.
#### Runtime analysis
We say an edge is *saturated* when all of its capacity is taken by some path. The next flow that passes through this edge must be in the opposite direction.

Key insight: for $u\to v$ followed by $v\to u$, we have $d(v)=d(u)+1$ and $d'(u)=d'(v)+1$. Since $d'(v)\geq d(v)\forall v,$ we get $d'(u)\geq d(u)+2$ and similarly $d'(v)\geq d(v)+2$.

Then the $u\to v$ edge can be saturated at most $n$ times. BFS is $O(m)$, at most $O(mn)$ APs so total runtime at most $O(m^{2}n).$
