For some optimization problem, we want to get within $\epsilon$ of the true answer, or within ratio of $[(1-\epsilon)O, (1+\epsilon)O].$
## Greedy Algorithms
Often we can get some $C$-approximation (frequently 2 or 3/2) by just making some simplifying assumption, doing things greedily, and then double- or triple-counting to show that our greedy construction is not that much worse than opt.
> [!important] Matching
> Classic example. Just take heavy edges greedily; 2-approximation to opt.

## Scheduling Theory
We have tasks to be completed by machines in parallel, under certain constraints, with certain objective.
### Notation
`machines` | `constraints` | `objective`
We have some number of machines $1$ or $m$. Constraints could be unit time tasks, $r_{j}$ "release dates", $d_{j}$ deadlines for discrete objective. Objective could be number of late tasks, combined total lateness, time to complete last task, average "freed time" (timestamp at which machine $i$ is no longer needed).
## FPAS, PAS
We want to get within $\epsilon$ of error. PAS means for any fixed $\epsilon$ we can get within $\epsilon$ relative error in $n-$polytime. FPAS (fully polynomial approx. scheme) means we can get within $\epsilon$ relative error in $n, \epsilon^{-1}$ polytime.

One common paradigm (for knapsack, bin packing, etc.) is to round item sizes, task times, etc. to integers, and solve with DP. Then runtime is in item size, so we must scale items to a certain function of $n, \epsilon^{-1}$ and round to integers, in order to get good relative error $\epsilon$ and poly runtime.

This general strategy of taking some optimization problem, rounding, solving is called "relaxation".

We have several examples:
### Traveling Salesman
### LP
General strategy:
- write our problem as some integral linear problem
- scale, solve in fractions, round to ints
### Vertex Cover
### Facility Location
$O(m)$ many costs of opening facilities, $O(mn)$ many costs for matching customers to facilities (each facility can support inf. many customers).

We can set up an integer LP for aour booleans denoting which facility each customer goes to. Take the average cost of connecting each customer, and cluster those that are at least $\rho$ times the average.
### Max SAT
Problem setup: we have several clauses, each of which is boolean OR of inputs (or their negations). Try to satisfy as many as possible with some input.

Clearly $OR(y_{i})\leq \sum_{i}y_{i},$ so we have the LP
$$
\begin{align}
\max &\sum z_{j},\\
z_{j}&\leq \sum _{i \text{ negated}}(1-y_{i}) + \sum_{i\text{ not negated}}y_{i}.
\end{align}
$$
Then given each fractional $y_{i}$ we round down to $0$ with likelihood $1-y$ and round to 1 with likelihood $y$.

Then we can look at expected value of sum of all our $z_{i}.$ Take our $y_{i}$ summing to at least $z_{j}$, then probability $z_{j}$ is 1 is 
$$1 - \prod(1-y_{i})\geq 1-\left( 1-\frac{z}{k} \right)^{k}\geq \left( 1-\frac{1}{e} \right)z.$$
In short: solve our LP, take our $y$, round probabilistically, and generate some $\sum z$ expected value is good. If we combo LP and randomized expected, can do even better.

We can "cheat" by breaking into two pieces, each of which has expected approximation error $1-\left( 1-\frac{2}{k} \right)^{k/2}$ instead of $1-\left( 1-\frac{1}{k} \right)^{k},$ just keep breaking things down.

