Algos that react to inputs a little bit at a time.

## Examples
*Ski rentals*: each day I choose to ski or not to ski, I can choose to rent at cost $1$ or buy at cost $T$. *Competitive analysis* is the best my algorithm can do vs opt against an adversary that is picking the sequence. If my algorithm is to rent $T$ times before buying, get a factor of 2.

*Finance*: suppose I'm selling a car, and bids come in within some range $[m,M].$ I know when the last offer is. Let $\phi=\frac{M}{m}.$

Deterministically I can take the first offer above $\sqrt{ mM },$ if I take then I'm at most $\sqrt{ \phi }$ below the max, and if I never take the max is at most $\sqrt{ mM }$ so last offer is at most $\sqrt{ \phi }$ below the max.

Randomly I can pick a power of 2 cutoff price from $[m,M]$ so I have $\frac{1}{\log \phi}$ chance of being within $2$ of the best. Then my expected selling price is at least on the order of $\frac{1}{\log \phi}$ of the best.

*Scheduling*: for the problem $P||\max C_{j}$ (no constrains, minimax load) assign each job to the least currently loaded machine. We call this *Graham's Rule*. Take* largest-load machine $M_{}$ with last job $p.$ Then all other loads are at least $M_{}-p$ so opt is at least $\frac{{m(M-p)+p}}{m}=M-p+\frac{p}{m},$ and also $opt\geq p,$ so $opt\left( 2-\frac{1}{m} \right)\geq M.$ Various randomized algorithms have gotten $2-o(1)$ (none better than 1.9).

*Paging*: we have memory and a cache, whenever we miss we have to evict and pay a price. Online algorithm is really about picking which item to evict.

*Deterministic Paging*
- Last in First out
- First in First out
- Flush when full
- Least frequently used
- Least recently used
LIFO, LFU not competitive

Lower bound: no online algorithm beats $k$-competitive. Have a $k+1$-page adversary that just calls whichever page is not in the cache—faults every time. But offline algorithm can lookahead and evict whichever page is not included in the next $k$ queries. This offline algorithm called Longest Forward Distance is optimal.
*Randomized Paging*
Called Fiat marking: all pages start unmarked, when evicting pick random unmarked page and mark new page. Sort of like randomized FIFO. Can induct to get a harmonic series EV yielding $\log k$-competitive.
### Types of Adversaries
- *oblivious* knows probability distribution but not the tosses, probabilistic opt
- *adaptive* knows tosses up to now
- *fully adaptive* knows all tosses, might as well play best determinstic 
## K-server problem
In some metric space requests appear in $d$-dimensional space and we have $k$ servers that have to move in space to serve them. This generalizes paging; the paging problem is when distance between any two points is $1,$ each server represents a cache item.
### On a Line (1D)
Intuition: greedy doesn't work because if we have servers at $0,1$ and requests that alternate between $0, 0.1$ then this becomes ski rental. Hence we want to "count" or "build up" potential to move in servers from "far away".

This motivates *double coverage* where both of the closest servers move closer towards the desired point. If new request is outside convex hull, move single closest server.
Claim this is $k$-competitive.

Define potential function using in-order matching cost $M$ and pairwise $\binom n 2$ distances in the DC setup.

Opt moving by $d$ increases $M$ term by at most $d$ (it's just matching). Now we analyze the effect of DC moving on this potential.
1. if moving to outside hull:
	- definitely moving "correctly" so $\Delta M=-d$
	- But $\Delta\Sigma=(k-1)d$ since moving farther from all other $k-1$ points
2. if moving to inside hull:
	- DC moving by $d$, at least one of the two servers is moving in the right direction so $M$ doesn't increase for suff. small $d$
	- Since two moving servers are adjacent, pairwise sum distances goes down by $d$
### SOTA for generalizations
This generalizes to trees for randomized $O(\log ^{3}n\log ^{2}k)$ for $k$-server using tree embeddings (!?). Have also achieved $2k$ for general $k$-server using some magic function.