## Splay Trees
- Insert: insert at leaf then splay
- Delete: delete as normal then splay parent
- Split: find $x$, splay, take subtree
- Merge of majorizing trees: Splay $\max(T_{1}),$ attach $T_{2}$ as right subtree
We can abstract `insert` and `delete` as combination of split and merge.

> [!warning]
> Splays are asymptotically "paid for" by potential, but inserts/deletes aren't accounted for. Recall to analyze $\Delta \phi$ on inserts.
### Potential issues
- amortized
- changes on reads
We can try to "only splay on really long searches" or "stop splaying" according to "statically optimal word assignment".

## Buckets (finite-bit items \[ints])
Let's do Dijkstra's, but for integer length edges. For a reminder, the algorithm is
- priority queue of nodes
- pop-min
- decrease-key for neighbors
- repeat

Suppose max edge length is small.
### Dial's
We want a big priority queue. However, we have assumption of high collisions, so we can have a priority queue of equivalence classes. Each class has same distance from source. Classes can be represented cheaply as flat arrays, linked list, etc.

If we address by mod $C+1$ distance from source, we maintain a $C+1$-length array of LL buckets, which have a total of $m$ insertions/deletions. So storage is ok for now. This yields *Dial's algorithm* with runtime $O(m+nC)$.

Now consider tower of empty bit indicators, also called *summary structures*. 

We could populate these immediately, which would also take a lot of space, or ... we could do things *lazily*.
1. Keep our tower of summary structures.
2. Only one path of buckets from "root" to "address" is maintained
3. Each node ever exists in one bucket
4. When we go down a new "path" we create new buckets, and prune its "sibling" (which we will never process again)
Each bucket is a collection of items, represented by LL. Keep an auxiliary pointing from each node `id` to its pointer, so removal from bucket is easy and hence decrease-key is `remove` and `insert`.