## Veb Queues
Let's do a straight-up RAM priority queue (for integers).

If values are at most $C$ then we have $b=\log C$ digits. Split into $upper$ and $lower$. Then:
- we want `get-min` and `delete-min` on upper
- we want upper to index into a lower, which also supports `get-min` and `delete-min`

Then we directly recurse data structures.

Then our struct $Q^{b}$ is $Q.upper=Q^{b/2}$ and $Q.lower$ which is an array of length $\sqrt{ C }$ of $Q^{b/2}$.
### Insertion
1. Adjust $Q.min$ if necessary
2. Insert $x.upper$ into $Q.upper$, adjust $Q.upper.min$ recursively etc.
3. Insert $x.lower$ into $Q.lower[x.upper]$.
### Delete-min
1. Grab $Q.upper.min=u_{m}$, and call `delete-min` on $Q.lower[u_{m}]$
2. If $Q.lower[u_{m}]$ is now empty then call `delete-min` on $Q.upper$, removing $u_{m}$ from the top structure
Since the depth of our PQ is $\log(b)$, we now get $O(\log \log n)$ for basic operations!
### Corollary
Now by repeated insert and delete-min, we obtain $O(n\log \log n)$ time for sorting arrays of integers!
## Hashing
Now we want to save *space*. Suppose we have a sparse set of long words, i.e. $n$ items in $[1,m]$. Indexing by these long words sucks; let's hash them and index by the hash output instead.

We have $n$ items from $[1,m]$, hash output maps to $[1,s]$.

> [!important] Hash families
> 1. Collisions: fix with LL
> 2. Large LLs: try to get small collisions
> 3. Universal hashes have adversary: Be instance dependent/random
> Need a small family of hashes that we *expect* to not have too many collisions

Let's introduce some randomness into our hash. Idea: *perfectly random permutation*!

For a random permutation, the indicator of collision $C_{i,j}$ has EV $\frac{1}{s}$, so average collisions per item is $O\left( \frac{n}{s} \right)$. Seems pretty good!

Random permutations are hard to evaluate; instead let's just pick $H(x)\equiv a\cdot h(x)+b \pmod p$ for random $a,b$. Then for any $i,j$ they collide with likelihood $O\left( \frac{1}{s} \right)$ still, and we're very happy.

Expectation of number of collisions (and hence lookup time) is $O\left( \frac{n}{s} \right)$.