## Orthogonal Range Queries
Given points in $\mathbb{R}^{n},$ how do we find all points in some axis-aligned box in $O(A+\log n)$ time, where $A$ is the answer?

- Assume $2^{n}$ points
- Create data structure for each "block" of length power of 2
- e.g. 2D case
	- break $x$-interval into $\log n$ preprocessed slabs
	- Each preprocessed slab is BST of $y$-coordinates
Total space taken is $O(n\log n).$ Our construction cost is $O(n\log ^{2}n).$ Query cost is $O(\log ^{2}n).$ In general it's $\log ^{d}n.$ If we want dynamic updates can use tree heap with faster insert/deletion times.
## Plane/Line Sweep, Convex Hull
For cases of low dimension can just sweep. E.g. for 2D convex hull, use Graham's line sweep.

Sort by $x$-value, grab the lowest x-value (guaranteed to be on CH). Take a line through $P$ and rotate, maintaining that all "turns" in our growing path go only rightwards. Maintain with a stack—pop last, check angle with last 2 until consistent, then insert. Costs $O(n\log n).$

Can do recursively with smart scheduling to get $O(n\log h)$ where $h$ is the size of the answer.

Can also do with *randomized incremental construction*. Given convex hull and new point, take arbitrary line through new point. If two intersections, inside hull; otherwise outside hull. Use sorted BBST to find vertices directly above/below the line and check for intersections. In case of new, can find new neighbors in $\log n$ time with exponential momentum.

For 3D, note linearly many edges/faces. Can naively check if inside the hull in $O(n)$ time, and delete faces in $O(n)$ time (check which side of half-plane new point is on). Say a vertex can "see" a face if it's on the wrong half-side of it. Clarkson-Shor gets $O(n\log n)$ speedup.
## Voronoi diagrams
Given fixed servers, we want to find the closest server to some query point in 2D Euclidean space. The bisectors partition into polytopes. Adding point at infinity creates a planar graph with exactly $n+1$ faces and each vertex has degree at most 3, so *linearly many edges and vertices*.

We can do sweep line again—except we are only sure about the status of points that are closer to a server than to the line, i.e. union of parabolas. Call this union the *beach line*. Note that by parabola definition, intersection of parabolas must lie on bisectors, i.e. "lowest" intersections are points that actually lie on edges. They are equidistant from foci and the line.

As line sweeps, we track events online:
- *site event* where we hit new point, an edge could now split into two
- *circle event* where two edges meet, now combines into one and one parabola can be dropped
We implement this using BBST on adjacent (intersecting) parabola pieces. There are linearly many inserts/deletions (linear in the number of edges/vertices) so $O(n\log n)$ runtime.
## Remark
BSP: binary space partitioning, used to partition objects/meshes into halves, can render the closer half without any concern for the farther half
- gives a robust ordering for rendering
## Low-dimensional LP
Goal: $O(d!n)$ time.

