# Problem 1
### (a)
Yes it is, because if there exists $g'$ that is a good inverse of g, then we can compute $f'$ the inverse of $f$ since given $f(x),$ we know the value of $g(x)$ is either $0||f(x)$ or $1||f(x),$ and then the inverse of those two values in $g$ is computable and the inverse of $f$ must be one of those.
### (b)
Yes it is, because if there exists suitable inverse $g',$ then we can invert $y=f(x)$ by computing $g'(f(y))$ which yields a non-negligible distribution over the original input $x.$
### (c)
Yes. Suppose such $g'$ exists, then we can compute a collision by:
- take some value $x$ and try to compute $x'=g'(g(x))$
- the probability that $x=x'$ is at most $\frac{1}{2^{\lambda}}$ because $x'$ can hit at most $2^{\lambda}$ values out of a total of $2^{2\lambda}$
- hence with overwhelming probability we can compute a pair of collisions for $g$, a contradiction
### (d)
No. Set $0$ to map to $0\dots0,$ $1$ to map to $0\dots 01,$ and all other inputs hash normally. Then there is a trivial collision for $g$ namely $(0,1)$ but no easy collisions for $f$.
### (e)
Yes. Otherwise we can find $x,x'$ such that $f(f(x))=f(f(x'))$ in which case either $f(x)=f(x')$ or $f(x)\neq f(x')$ and $f(f(x))=f(f(x'))$, in either case we've found a collision.
# Problem 2
### (a)
The attacker can compute $F(k,r)$ for all values of $k$ and sufficiently many values of $r$ such that $k$ is unique from the set of values of $F(k,r)$. Then given the function $F(k,\cdot),$ the attacker can just compute the values of $r$ and use the lookup table to determine $k$. If $F$ is random, the expected value of $r$ is $O(1)$ because there are $2^{\lambda}$ values for $k$ and $2^{\lambda}$ possible outputs, so the likelihood any two $k_{1},k_{2}$ collide is $\frac{1}{2^{\lambda}},$ there are at most $2^{2\lambda}$ pairs $k_{1},k_{2}$.
### (b)
Do zero preprocessing, and just try all values of $x$ until we hit one satisfying $f(x)=N.$
### (c)
Allocate an array of length $N\log N$ bits, blocked out $N$ boxes each of size $\log N$. Then for each $i$ from 1 to $N$ write $i$ into $A[f(i)].$ Then given output $y$ just lookup $A[y].$
### (d)
In the worst case $G$ is a single cycle. Store a back pointer to the previously logged point $t$ steps ago, so that finding parent node takes at most $t$ time (take at most $t$ steps until you find a back pointer, guaranteed to be behind you). Then $S=\frac{N}{t}\log N$ (using a hash table) and $T=t\log \frac{N}{t}$ so by AM-GM the best $t$ is $\sqrt{ N }$ resulting in $S=T=\sqrt{ N }\log N$.
### (e)
In RAM keep a sorted list of all values for which a back pointer exist. Even with a binary trie we're only able to encode $\text{poly}(L)$ bitstrings in $\text{poly}(L)$ space, 
### (f)
Would rather take the Grover algorithm quantum computer, because it is $\log N$ times faster.
# Problem 3
### (a)
For any nonzero element $a,$ take the natural representative in $(0,p)\cap \mathbb{Z},$ and then $\gcd(a,p)=1.$ Then there exist $c,d$ such that $ac+pd=1,$ hence $ac\equiv 1 \pmod p$ and $c$ is a multiplicative inverse of $a$.
### (b)
Take any proper divisor of $n$ that is not $1$, one must exist since $n$ is composite. Then this value $d=\frac{n}{q}$ does not have an inverse. Otherwise in $\mathbb{Z}$ there exist $a,b$ for which
$$
ad+bp=1 \implies 1 = d(a+bq),
$$
i.e. $d$ must equal 1, which is false.
### (c)
##### 1.
Check each root: $x=0$ yields $2$, $x=1$ yields $1$ and $x=2$ yields $2$.
##### 2.
$$
0, 1, 2, x, x+1, x+2, 2x, 2x+1, 2x+2
$$
##### 3.
The order of $x$ is the smallest value $a$ for which $x^2+x+2\mid x^{a}-1.$ 

Note that
$$
1=-x^{-1}-2x^{-2}=-x^{-2}+2x^{-3}=3x^{-3}+2x^{-4}=-x^{-4}-6x^{-5}=-x^{-4}.
$$
It is clear that we cannot have $1=x^{k}$ for $k\in(0,8)$ since otherwise we could divide through by $-x^{4}$. However $1=x^{8},$ so the order is $a=8.$
# Problem 4
### (a)
Use $f(x)=\text{Enc}(x)\oplus\pi(x).$ Then if $f(m_{1})=f(m_{2}),$ we get
$$
\text{Enc}(m_{1})\oplus \pi(m_{1}\oplus k\oplus k)\oplus k=
\text{Enc}(m_{2})\oplus \pi(m_{2}\oplus k\oplus k)\oplus k,
$$
i.e.
$$
\text{Enc}(m_{1})\oplus \text{Enc}(m_{1}\oplus k)=\text{Enc}(m_{2})\oplus \text{Enc}(m_{2}\oplus k).
$$
Then if $m_{1}\neq m_{2},$ it's overwhelmingly likely (!?) that $m_{1},m_{1}\oplus k=m_{2}\oplus k,m_{2}$ i.e. $k=m_{1}\oplus m_{2}.$
### (b)
There is $\frac{1}{2^{n}}$ chance that random pair $m_{1},m_{2}$ satisfy $m_{1}\oplus m_{2}=k.$ There is also a $\frac{1}{2^{n}}$ chance that random $m_{1},m_{2}$ satisfy $f(m_{1})=f(m_{2})$ (because the $f(\cdot)$ is random) independent of $m_{1}\oplus m_{2}=k$ by assumption. Hence we have at least half chance that $m_{1}\oplus m_{2}=k$ given a collision.
### (c)
Hexcode key: `0x4254484459`