First:
>[!important] Sumcheck
> Proving the correctness of $\sum_{h_{i}}f(h_{i})$ for $h_{i}\in H^{m},$ for $f$ some $m$-ary polynomial.
> At step $n:$
> - verifier asks for the polynomial in $h_{n}$ with $i<n$ fixed random $h_{i}$ and $i>n$ summed over
> - check that summing current polynomial equals evaluation of previous polynomial

If earlier step $P_{n}$ is incorrect instance but later step $P_{n+1}$ is correct instance, that happens with likelihood $\frac{d}{|\mathbb F|}$, since $P_{n}(t_{n})$ happens to be correct, for $d$ of total $| \mathbb F|$ choices of $t_{n}.$

Now we want to evaluate over binary circuits. Assume they're layered, and circuits generated by some log-space machine, with $|S|$ in each layer. Output is layer $0.$
## GKR Protocol
> Index our $|S|$ gates with $|H|^{m}$ (can pick $H$ to be binary).
>
>  Encode values with $V_{i}$ for each layer $i,$ and 3-ary boolean functions to determine gate status for each layer $ADD_{i},MULT_{i}.$ These functions have degree at most $|H|$ in each index "bit".
>  
>  Prover wishes to demonstrate an LDE opening of each $V_{i},$ starting from output.


Then for $z \in H,$ $$ V_{i}(z)=\sum_{w_{1},w_{2}} ADD_{i}(z,w_{1},w_{2})(V_{i+1}(w_{1})+V_{i+1}(w_{2})) +MUL_{i}(z,w_{1},w_{2})(V_{i+1}(w_{1})\cdot V_{i+1}(w_{2})). $$
We use a LDE field with our indicator $\beta(a,b)=\mathbb 1_{a=b}:$
$$ V_{i}(z_{i})=\sum_{p,w_{1},w_{2}}\left[  ADD_{i}(p,w_{1},w_{2})(V_{i+1}(w_{1})+V_{i+1}(w_{2})) +MUL_{i}(p,w_{1},w_{2})(V_{i+1}(w_{1})\cdot V_{i+1}(w_{2}))\right]\beta(p,z_{i}). $$
This is now something we can run sumcheck on, with $p,w_{1},w_{2} \in H^{m}.$ Claims are:
- $V_{0}(z_{0})=1$
- Run sumcheck: what are $V_{1}(w_{1,1}),V_{1}(w_{1,2})$ when oracle is needed?
- Run sumcheck using shared randomness: what are $V_{2}(w_{2,1}),V_{2}(w_{2,2})$ when needed?
- etc.