Formula sheet is [here](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/8-03sc-physics-iii-vibrations-and-waves-fall-2016/c9296743d8d2167bfbeb6b0b93c28cf6_MIT8_03SCF16_FinalExam_Formula.pdf).
## Oscillations on a Spring-like Material—Wave Equation
Key example:
> Take a 2D rectangular mesh of beads on strings, oscillating laterally. We drop the BCs and extend to infinite plane—the translation is up/down/left/right so we can just do $z(x,y)=e^{i(k_{1}x+k_{2}y)}$ and match up the coefficients.
> 
> The equation looks like $$\ddot{{z(t)}}=\frac{T}{L}\nabla^{2}z(x,y).$$

The $\nabla^{2}$ is the continuous version of a $\begin{bmatrix}1&-2&1\end{bmatrix}$ matrix $K$ representing forces due to neighbors being attached with springs oscillating longitudinally.

In this case we get a (straightforward) $M^{-1}K \frac{\partial^{2}x}{\partial x^{2}}\vec{z}=\dot{z}\dot{},$ with normal modes being represented by $e^{-i\omega t}v$ with $v$ being eigenvector of $M^{-1}K$ with eigenvalue $\omega^{2}$.

Next we have incoming waves, crossing a border and creating a transmitted and reflected wave. Based on tension on the string on the other side/refraction index on the other side/wtv, the wavenumber $k_{2}$ on the other side will be different but reflection wavenumber will be $-k$.

Then we match boundary conditions on the border:
- fixed point: value at 0 is fixed at whatever
- moving loop on rod: values are equal, derivatives are equal
- moving weight: values are equal, delta in derivatives provides force matching $f''(0)$
And solve for the coefficients on the waves we care about.

## Travelling Waves, Wavepackets
Earlier we just had standing waves as normal modes. With sum-to-product or vice versa we can write standing waves as a sum of travelling waves in opposite directions, or travelling waves as standing in opposite phase.

Wavepackets are defined by wavenumber distribution $\Phi(k)$ and dispersion relation $v_{p}=v(k)$. Then the wavepacket is defined by
$$
\int \Phi(k)e^{i(kx-v(k)kt)}\,dk.
$$
If we assume $\Phi$ has a peak at $k_{0}$ then we require $kx-v(k)t$ to be "stationary" near $k_{0}$ i.e. $\frac{dx}{dt}=\frac{d\omega}{dk}$. We thus have a distinction between the *phase velocity* at $k$ and the *group velocity* at $k$.

Now we have *Fourier analysis*. We have to be careful about the bounds. We do this when we have a moving pattern on a string. Depending on the medium we have a *dispersion relation* $k(\omega)=\frac{\omega}{v}$. Then after we Fourier on the original wave we find the velocities at each wavenumber and then reconstruct the wavepacket at a given time in the future.

To avoid dispersion we invented a thing called "AM Radio", meaning if the signal we want to send is $f_{s}$ we actually send $f_{s}\cos(\Omega t)$ for large $\Omega$, so that the shape now becomes a very pointy trig function with the peaks tracing out the previous values of $f_{s}$.

"Uncertainty Principle": if we send a Gaussian wave, the Fourier transform of wavenumber distribution is also a Gaussian with width inverse to that of the original Gaussian.

## EM Waves and Optics
### Wave Equation
The wave equations are all in the formula sheet, but can be rederived by plugging Maxwell's to get $\left(  \nabla^{2}-\frac{1}{c^{2}}\right)\vec{E}=\left(  \nabla^{2}-\frac{1}{c^{2}}\right)\vec{B}=0.$

Also $\vec{E}=c \vec{B}\times k, \vec{B}=\frac{1}{c}\hat{k}\times \vec{E}$ for the direction of the wave.
### Polarization
This is all 2D EM, as mentioned in 8.02. $\vec{E}$ oscillates in one direction, and $\vec{B}$ oscillates in the other direction perpendicular to both $\vec{E}$ and $\hat{k}$. However in 3D, we can compose two rays in the same direction, but oscillating in $\hat{x}$ and $\hat{y}$, and out of phase, meaning

$$
\vec{E}=\left(  \hat{x}+i\hat{y}\right) e^{i(kz-\omega t)}.
$$
This generates a $\vec{E}$ that spins in a circle. By varying the coefficients of $\hat{x}$ and $\hat{y}$ we can get different shapes, ellipses etc.

We have *polarizers* which force EM waves to be linearly polarized in a given direction, taking the parallel component of $\vec{E}$ and discarding the perpendicular component. Hence when two polarizers are chained, resulting $I\alpha \cos\theta^{2}$.

There's also *quarter wave plates*, with a FAST axis where $\vec{E}$ in that direction goes through straight, and a perpendicular SLOW axis where $\vec{E}$ in that direction is delayed by some phase $\delta$.
### Energy Density
Intensity $I \alpha E^{2}$. Poynting is $\vec{S}=\frac{1}{\mu_{0}}\vec{E}\times \vec{B}$ (to get the $\hat{k}$ vector for direction of propagation). This is all on the formula sheet.
### Reflection
Don't forget index of refraction, Snell's Law, speed laws, i.e. $n_{1}\sin\theta_{1}=n_{2}\sin\theta_{2}$ and $n_{1}v_{1}=n_{2}v_{2}$. Because $n_{i}$ determines speed, it has a similar function to tension $T$ in different string regimes: when light passes between different materials with different $n_{i}$ the frequency stays the same to preserve BC but wavenumber changes.
## Interference and Diffraction
Big idea behind interference is light from different correlated sources interfere with each other due to optical path difference.

### Thin Slit
Just light coming from thin slits, i.e. examining wave property of light through small holes on a wall behind. Through the small slits light emanates spherically (Hyugen's).

For a given destination $D$ on the wall behind we assume its distance is large relative to the size of the hole, i.e. angle from any point inside the hole to $D$ is fixed. Then we just integrate the phase "difference". For discrete point-shaped slits the phase diff is $\delta=\frac{{d\sin\theta}}{\lambda}2\pi,$ so we get $1+e^{i\delta}+e^{2i\delta}+\dots$ which somehow becomes $\frac{\sin(\beta)}{\beta}$ for some reason.

For 2D slits it's a 2D Fourier transform because we care about the "convolution" with $e^{i(k\cdot x)}$ which we can get from the Fourier transform.

The final type of interference is *thin-film interference* caused by two material boundary layers: reflection off the first layer and then the second layer. Hence peak is when $2h=n\lambda$ and trough (0) is when $2h=\left( n+\frac{1}{2} \right)\lambda$.