## Resonance
Scattering state: Finite square well with incoming wave from left side. Then we have inc., refl. on left side, two oscillating in the well, and a single transmitted from the right. Specifically, $Ae^{ikx}+Be^{-ikx}$ for $x<-a,$ $Ce^{ik_2x}+De^{-ik_2x}$ for $|x|<a,$ and $Fe^{ikx}$ for $x>a.$

Solving in terms of $A$ by matching $\Psi,\Psi'$ at $x=\pm a.$ As usual we have $k^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2},$ $k_2^2=\frac{2m(E+V_0)}{\hbar^2}.$

As a result we get

$$\frac1T=\frac{|A|^2}{|F|^2}=1+\frac14\frac{V^2}{E^2+EV}\sin^2(2k_2a).$$
Evidently for "arbitrary" $E,K_2$ we get $T\in(0,1)$ and also $T\to 0$ as $E\to 0,$ $T\to\infty$ as $E\to\infty$. But if we want perfect $T=1$ we can fix $\sin(2k_2a)=0,$ i.e. the frequency $k_2$ fits itself perfectly within the well width $2a$.

More specifically, given that $2k_2a=n\pi,$ we can compute
$$E+V=\frac{n^2\pi^2\hbar^2}{2m(2a)^2,}$$
the same as the energy for the $n$th bound state in the inf. square well!

This was first seen in the real world in the *Ramsauer-Townsend effect,* where the number of reflections when electrons were fired at a wall of noble gases had unexpected troughs regularly.

## Half-Domain Scattering
We consider scattering states with potentials with an infinite wall at $x=0$ and $V=0$ for $x>r$.

These are instigated by an incoming wave from $x=\infty,$ so $x=e^{-ikx}$ for the usual $k^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2}.$ 

In the case that $V=0$ for all $x>0$ the only resolution to $\Psi(0)=0$ is $\sin(kx),$ so we'll slap $\frac1{2i}$ on everything as convention.

For general $V$ let the outgoing wave be $e^{ikx+i2\delta}$ for some $\delta(x).$ For $x>r$ we actually need $\delta$ constant. Also $\delta$ must be real because of how probability flux works. Then we can write

$$\Psi(x)=\frac1{2i}\left(e^{ikx+2i\delta}-e^{-ikx}\right)=e^{i\delta}\sin(kx+\delta).$$
#### Time Delay
If we examine a wavepacket constructed from $g(k)$ then
$$\Psi_{inc}=\int g(k)(e^{-ikx})(e^{-iE(k)t/\hbar}).$$
The reflected wavepacket is
$$\Psi_{ref}=\int g(k)(e^{ikx+2i\delta(k)})(e^{-iE(k)t/\hbar}).$$
Since $\frac{\partial P}{\partial k}=0$ at the crest, we get
$$x+2\frac{\partial\delta}{\partial k}-\frac1\hbar\frac{\partial E}{\partial k}t=0$$
evaluated at $k=k_0.$ Pulling out a $\frac{\partial E}{\partial k}=\frac{\hbar^2k}{m}$ from $\frac{\partial\delta}{\partial k}$ we get
$$x=\frac{\hbar k_0}{m}(t-2\hbar\delta'(E(k_0))).$$
As a result the *time delay* is 
$$\Delta t=2\hbar\delta'(E(k_0))$$
(with $\delta$ as a function of $E$ ofc).
#### Example
Consider constant potential for the nonzero region. Then ansatz is $A\sin(k_2x),Be^{i\delta}\sin(kx+\delta)$ piecewise. Notice $\psi(0)=0$ is naturally handled. Solve this for $\delta.$