---
tags:
  - quantum
---
#### de Broglie wavelengths
We can take a normal Galilean transformation
$$x'=x-vt, t'=t.$$
Notice that since $p=mv,$ and $\lambda=\frac hp,$ so the de Broglie wavelength actually changes with an inertial frame of reference change.

Understandably, the observable, time-independently measurable phase $\phi=kx-\omega t$ is a Galilean invariant.

>[!TIP] Harmonic equations and relations
The primitives are $v$ velocity and $\lambda$ complete wavelength.
$$\lambda\nu=v,\quad T=\frac1\nu=\frac\lambda v, \quad \omega=\frac{2\pi}T=2\pi\nu,\quad k=\frac{2\pi}\lambda$$
==> Here $\nu$ is complete cycle frequency while $\omega$ is the angular frequency, and $k$ is the wavenumber (inverse distance units), meaning one would write $\sin(kx).$==

Recall also the Planck constant $h$ and the reduced $\hbar$.

>[!info] de Broglie relations
$$p=\hbar k,\quad\lambda=\frac{2\pi}k=\frac hp.$$

#### Group Velocities

We have a packet of waves traveling together. For each wavenumber $k$ there is an associated frequency $\omega(k)$ and a magnitude $\Phi(k).$ At each point in time $t,$ for each location $x$ we stack all the waves and their amplitudes at that point by computing
$$\psi(x,t)=\int\Phi(k)e^{i(kx-\omega(k)t)}\,dk.$$
We can try to figure out where this is nonnegligible, determining the location of the "body" of the wave packet. Assume that $\Phi(k)$ has a large peak at $k_0.$ We need $i(kx-\omega(k)t)$ to be stationary at $k_0$, which yields $\frac xt=\frac{\partial \omega}{\partial k}.$ Thus there is a group velocity of $\frac{\partial \omega}{\partial k},$ the speed at which the apparent bulk of the wave moves.
#### Wavefunctions

We can have candidate wavefunctions. Given $E,p$ we can determine $k,\omega,$ sure. We could try $\cos(kx\pm\omega t,)$ but we have the constraint that

> [!warning] Matter wavefunction constraint
Under any superposition, $\nexists t\colon \forall x, \psi(x,t)=0.$

Turns out that $\cos(kx-\omega t)+\cos(kx+\omega t)=2\cos(kx)\cos(\omega t),$ clearly fails.

Therefore it has to be $e^{i(\pm kx\pm\omega t)};$ sticking to the above convention, we have

>[!important] Matter wavefunction formula
$$\Psi(x,t)=e^{i(kx-\omega t)}.$$
This allows the wave to propogate *forward*; $kx'-\omega t'=kx-\omega t\implies k\Delta x=\omega\Delta t.$
