### Problem 1
> Show that $\psi(x)=e^{i\delta(k)}\sin(kx+\delta(k))$ having a bound-state solution means $A_s=e^{i\delta}\sin\delta$ has a pole for some imaginary value $k=i\kappa.$

Expand to get $e^{-ikx}+e^{i(kx+2\delta(k))},$ signflip for convenience to get $e^{ikx}+e^{-i(kx+2\delta(k))}.$ Then for bound state asymptotically becoming $e^{-\kappa x}$ we get $k=i\kappa$ so $e^{-\kappa x}+e^{\kappa x-2i\delta(k)}.$ Then evidently $|e^{2i\delta(k)}|>|e^{\kappa x}$ as $x\to\infty$ so $e^{i\delta(k)}$ has a pole there, done.
### Problem 2
> Suppose $\hat A,\hat B$ are commuting operators, and spectrum of $\hat A$ is nondegenerate. Then all eigenstates of $\hat A$ are the same for $\hat B.$

Simply, $\lambda B\psi=BA\psi=AB\psi,$ and $A\varphi=\lambda\varphi$ if and only if $\varphi=k\psi,$ so $B\psi=k\psi$ and we're done.
### Problem 3
> Determine expectation, uncertainty of $L_z, \bf{L^2}$ for $$\psi(r,\theta,\phi)=\frac14\sqrt{\frac 5\pi}\sin^2\theta(1+\sqrt{14}\cos\theta)\cos2\phi f(r).$$

Well, using Wikipedia's handy spherical harmonic lookup table we get
$$\psi=\frac1{\sqrt 6}(Y_2^{-2}+Y_2^2)+\frac1{\sqrt 3}(Y_3^{-2}+Y_3^2).$$
Eigenvalue of $L_z$ is $m,$ $\bf L^2$ is $l(l+1).$ Then $L_z$ is even chance $-2$ or $2$, and $\bf L^2$ is $\frac13$ chance $6,$ $\frac23$ chance $12.$ Expectations are $0,10;$ uncertainties are $2,2\sqrt 2.$
### Problem 4
> Consider $l=0$ states of an infinite/finite spherical well $V(r)$, $0$ for $r<a$ and $\infty$ otherwise. 

Resulting equation for $u=r\psi(r)$ is
$$(-\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\nabla^2+V)u=Eu.$$
This is indistinguishable from time-independent Schrodinger's. Usual solving yields $k^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2},$ and $u$ vanishes at $r=0$ so $u=\sin(k), u(a)=0$ so $ak=n\pi,$ etc.etc. Yields same quantized energies as infinite well potential.

For a *finite* spherical well $V$ equalling $-V_0$ for small $r$ and $0$ for large $r$, stipulation that $u(a)=0$ yields $k^2=\frac{2m(V-E)}{\hbar^2},$ $\kappa^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2},$ and by usual derivative/value matching $ak\cot(ak)=-a\kappa.$ Note also that $(ak)^2+(a\kappa)^2=\frac{2V_0ma^2}{\hbar^2}.$ By Desmos inspection/some weird casework it's clear $(ak)^2+(a\kappa)^2\geq\frac{\pi^2}4$ at $\kappa=0,ak=\frac\pi 2,$ so $\frac{2V_0ma^2}{\hbar^2}\geq\frac{\pi^2}4,$ the result follows.
### Problem 5
> SKIPPED

### Problem 6
> Examine the Virial Theorem $\langle T\rangle=-\frac12\langle V\rangle.$

IDK bro just do shit lol.
### Problem 7
> .

