### Problem 1
> Explore $f(\lambda)=\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}dx\,e^{-100(x-2)^2}e^{i\phi(\lambda,x)}$ where $\phi(\lambda,x)=50(x-\lambda\frac1{32}x^4).$

Half-max width is at $e^{-100(x-2)^2}=\frac12,$ i.e. $100(x-2)^2=\ln 2,$ so $\Delta=\frac{\sqrt {\ln 2}}{5}.$ Integrating from 1 to 3 is thus completely fine, at 1 or 3 we've reached $e^{-100},$ wow.

Stationary phase specifies $\left.\frac d{dx}\phi\right|_2=0,$ i.e. $1-\frac18\lambda 2^3=0,$ so $\lambda=1.$ Then $50(x-\frac1{32} x^4)$ expanded degree 2 round $x=2$ is $50(1.5-\frac3{16}(x-2)^2).$

Using that approximation, within the half-max width range, the excursion of $\phi$ is just $50\cdot\frac 3{16}\frac{ln 2}{100}=\left(\frac{3\ln 2}{32\pi}\right)\pi$ radians. Not all that much!

Integrating with constant $\phi$ yields $\frac{\sqrt\pi}{10}\cdot e^{75i}.$ Integrating with quadratic approx. $\phi$ yields $\frac{\sqrt\pi}{\sqrt{100+\frac3{16}i}}\cdot e^{75i}.$
### Problem 2
> Analyze limits for $\tan(\delta)=\frac{1-\frac{k'}{k}\cot k'a\tan ka}{\tan ka+\frac{k'}k\cot k'a},$ with $k^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2}, k'^2=\frac{2m(V+E)}{\hbar^2},$ and $z_0=\frac{2mV_0a^2}{\hbar^2}.$

As $E\to 0,$ $k\to 0$ and $k'\to \frac{\sqrt{2mV}}{\hbar}.$ Then we can rewrite as
$$\tan(\delta)=\frac{k-k'\cot k'a\tan ka}{k\tan ka+k'\cot k'a}.$$
From this it is clear top $\to 0$ and bottom $\to k'\cot k'a\neq 0,$ so $\tan(\delta)\to 0.$
As $E\to\infty,$ $k'-k\to 0$$ so $\cot k'a\tan ka\to 1.$ Top $\to 0$ while bottom $\to 2k(\tan ka+\cot k'a)$ which has norm at least $\frac14$. Thus $\tan(\delta)\to 0.$
Finally, letting $u=ka$ we have $k'a=\sqrt{u^2+z_0^2},$ so we get
$$\delta=\arctan\left(\frac{u-\sqrt{u^2+z_0^2}\cot\sqrt{u^2+z_0^2}\tan u}{u\tan u+\sqrt{u^2+z_0^2}\cot\sqrt{u^2+z_0^2}}\right).$$
### Problem 3
> Solve for phase shift in the potential $V$ equalling $V_0>0$ for $x\in (0,a),$ $0$ for $x>a,$ and $\infty$ otherwise.

If $E(k)>V_0$ then we get $k^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2}, k_2^2=\frac{2m(E-V)}{\hbar^2}.$ On the right we have $\sin(kx+\delta)$ and on the left $\sin(k_2x)$ so the old $\psi/\psi'$ strat yields
$$
\begin{align*}
k_2\tan(ak_2)
&=k\tan(ak+\delta)\\
&=\frac{k\tan(ak)+k\tan(\delta)}{1-\tan(ak)\tan(\delta)}.
\end{align*}
$$
Then it's plain to see (from sight expansion) that
$$\tan(\delta)=\frac{k_2\tan(ak_2)-k\tan(ak)}{k+k_2\tan(ak_2)\tan(ak)}.$$
If $E(k)<V_0$ then with $\kappa^2=\frac{2m(V-E)}{\hbar^2},$ left is $\sinh(\kappa x)$ and right is $\sin(kx+\delta)$ so same thing
$$
\begin{align*}
\kappa\tanh(a\kappa)
&=k\tan(ak+\delta).\\
\end{align*}
$$
By the same manipulation,
$$\tan(\delta)=\frac{\kappa\tanh(a\kappa)-k\tan(ak)}{k+\kappa\tanh(a\kappa)\tan(ak)}.$$
### Problem 4
> Examine phase shift with $V(x)=g\delta(x-a),$ $g$ of units $J\cdot m$.

On the left $\sin(kx)$ on the right $\sin(kx+\delta),$ as usual.

Integrating the Hamiltonian yields
$$g\Psi(a)=\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\Delta\left.\frac d{dx}\Psi\right|_a.$$
Matching via $\sin(ak+\delta)\sin(kx)$ and $\sin(ak)\sin(kx+\delta),$ we get
$$
\begin{align*}
g\sin(ak)\sin(ak+\delta)
&=\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}\left(k\cos(ak+\delta)\sin(ak)-k\cos(ak)\sin(ak+\delta)\right)\\
&=\frac{k\hbar^2}{2m}\sin(ak-(ak+\delta))\\
&=-\frac{k\hbar^2}{2m}\sin\delta.
\end{align*}
$$
Then
$$g\sin^2(ak)\cos(\delta)+g\cos(ak)\sin(ak)\sin(\delta)+\frac{\hbar^2}{2m}k\sin(\delta)=0.$$
Consequently
$$\tan(\delta)=-\frac{\sin^2(ak)}{\cos(ak)\sin(ak)+\frac{\hbar^2}{2amg}ak}=-\frac{\sin^2(ak)}{\cos(ak)\sin(ak)+\lambda ak},$$
using denote $\lambda=\frac{\hbar^2}{2amg}.$ As $ak\to 0$ we get $\sin(ak)\to ak$ so $\tan(\delta)\to -\frac{ak}{1+\lambda},$ and as $\lambda\to\infty$ we get $\tan(\delta)=0$ for any $ak$.
### Problem 5
> Show that $x,y,p_x,p_y$ have zero expectation on a $L_z$ eigenstate.

First we compute a bazillion commutators. $L_z=\frac\hbar i\left(x\frac d{dy}-y\frac d{dz}\right).$ Then
$$
\begin{align*}
[L_z,x]&=\frac\hbar i(0)-\frac\hbar i(y)=-\frac\hbar i y,\\
[L_z,y]&=\frac\hbar i(x)-\frac\hbar i(0)=\frac\hbar i x,\\
[L_z,z]&=0,\\
[L_z,p_x]&=\frac\hbar i\left(-\frac\hbar i \frac d{dy}\right) - \frac\hbar i(0)=-\frac\hbar i p_y,\\
[L_z,p_y]&=\frac\hbar i(0) - \frac\hbar i\left(-\frac\hbar i\frac d{dx}\right)=\frac\hbar i p_x,\\
[L_z,p_z]&=0.
\end{align*}
$$
Finally, if $[L_z,\hat A]=\hat B,$ then for an eigenstate $L_z\psi=\lambda\psi$ we get
$$\begin{align*}
\langle\psi,\hat A\psi\rangle
&=\langle\psi,\hat A\lambda\psi\rangle\frac1{\lambda}\\
&=\langle\psi,\hat AL_z\psi\rangle\frac1{\lambda}\\
&=\left(\langle\psi,L_z\hat A\psi\rangle+\langle\psi,[\hat A,L_z]\psi\rangle\right)\frac1{\lambda}\\
&=\left(\langle L_z\psi,\hat A\psi\rangle+\langle\psi,-\hat B\psi\rangle\right)\frac1{\lambda}\\
&=\frac1{\lambda}\langle L_z\psi,\hat A\psi\rangle+\frac1{\lambda}\langle\psi,-\hat B\psi\rangle\\
&=\langle \psi,\hat A\psi\rangle+\frac1{\lambda}\langle\psi,-\hat B\psi\rangle.\\
\end{align*}$$
Thus $\langle\psi,\hat B\psi\rangle=0.$ Thus by the previous commutator computations, the claim is shown.
### Problem 6
> Compute $\bf L^2$ in spherical coordinates.

Skipped