Recall Schrodinger equation; if we want a "time independent" or "stationary" state we need wavefunction ROC to be proportional to the wavefunction, i.e. an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian.

More formally,

>[!important] Stationary States
>$\Psi(x,t)=e^{-iEt/\hbar}\psi(x),$ where $E\in\mathbb R$ and $\hat H\psi=E\psi.$

The exponential is actually a "rotation", just a scalar complex multiplication of norm 1. This preserves the normalization.

The expectation value of a stationary state for a time-independent operator is itself time-independent; notice how the rotation cancels out in the integral $\int \Psi Q \Psi^*.$

If we compose two stationary states we don't get another stationary state. 

Eigenstates for Hamiltonian are also called *energy eigenstates*.
### Characterization
If we make assumptions on the potential, we can get info about the wavefunction.

We will allow
- Piecewise continuous
- Delta functions
- Infinities at hard walls

As a result $\psi'$ exists and has finitely many discontinuities. 

### Free Particle on Circle
We have $x\in[0,L]$ a looped domain. Then we want to compute all of the stationary eigenstates. We get $e^{ikx}$ as an eigenstate for some $k,$ at which point $kL=2\pi n$ from periodicity, so we've got our finite collection of eigenstates, and can characterize all solutions by Fourier expansion. (Discrete spread of eigenvalues, i.e. observables)

We see that energy and momentum is quantized on this looped domain. Both $\psi_n$ and $\psi_{-n}$ have energy $E_n=\frac{2\pi^2\hbar n^2}{mL^2},$ the eigenvalue from the Hamiltonian.

The momentum eigenvalues of each of the eigenstates are different, so they must all be orthonormal. The resulting "infinite vector" of Fourier coefficients has norm 1.