### Def'n, Motivation
First we'll treat unrigorously, with a potential that is a well with infinite walls. Then we'll take a limit.
### Inf Square Well
So we have $V(x)=0$ if $x\in(0,a),$ $V(x)=\infty$ else.

Then we must have $\psi(x)=0$ for $x\in(-\infty,0]\cup [a,\infty)$  by continuity of $\psi$ and energy conservation.

Then in $[0,a]$ there is no potential and we just get 1D Schrodinger free equation
$$\frac{d^2\psi}{dx}=-\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2}\psi.$$
Then we do the usual, set $k^2=\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2},$ then $\psi=e^{\pm ikx}.$ After imposing boundary conditions we get $\psi_n(x)=\sin(\frac{n\pi x}{a}).$ The normalization is $\sqrt{\frac 2a}.$ In other words, we can take any wavefunction on this domain and Fourier expand to obtain distribution among the quantized energy distribution.

### Finite Square Well
Let's reframe as $V(x)=-V_0$ if $|x|\leq a,$ and $V(x)=0$ otherwise.

Note that the energy eigenvalue $-V_0<E<0,$ otherwise we get a non-normalizable plane wave for $|x|>a,$ and we also want positive KE in the well. (With $E<0$ we get a decaying exponential, below)

Then within the well,
$$\frac{d^2\psi}{dx}=-\frac{2m(V_0-|E|)}{\hbar^2}\psi.$$
Outside the well,
$$\frac{d^2\psi}{dx}=-\frac{2mE}{\hbar^2}\psi=\frac{2m|E|}{\hbar^2}\psi.$$

Then with
$$k=\sqrt{\frac{2m}{\hbar^2}(V_0-|E|)},\qquad\kappa=\sqrt{\frac{2m|E|}{\hbar^2}}.$$
we get $\psi(x)=Ae^{-\kappa|x|}$ outside the well, $e^{\pm ikx}$ inside the well. Taking the even/odd solutions for inside yields $\cos kx$ or $\sin kx$.

Introduce the nondimensionalized $\eta=ka,\xi=\kappa a,$ then in fact $$\eta^2+\xi^2=\frac{2mV_0a^2}{\hbar^2}.$$
Then imposing $\psi,\psi'$ continuity, for the even case at $x>0$ we get 
$$\cos \eta=Ae^{-\xi},-k\sin\eta=-\kappa Ae^{-\xi}\implies k\tan\eta=\kappa\iff \eta\tan\eta=\xi.$$
For the odd case we similarly get $-\eta\cot\eta=\xi.$ Considering the constraint above, there are $O\left(\sqrt{\frac{2mV_0a^2}{\hbar^2}}\right)$ many stationary states, one for each period of $\eta\tan\eta$.

Now it's clear that in the limit $k$ is the same set of values as before, and $\kappa$ goes to infinity.

General qualitative properties include
-   Higher bound energy is faster oscillation in well, slower decay outside well