Reminder that we're only working with stationary states, i.e. eigenstates of the Hamiltonian. Thus there's no time derivative.
Our equation is
$$\psi''+\frac{2m}{\hbar^2}(E-V(x))\psi=0.$$
### Properties
- **No degenerate bound states**
- **All states are full-real**
These are a result of being able to solve the above diffEq uniquely given $\lim_{x\to\infty}\psi(x)=0.$
- **Energy eigenvalue $E\geq\min_x V(x).$**
If $E-V(x)<0$ everywhere then $\psi$ will either be always positive + concave up or always neg + concave down. Just find somewhere satisfying $\psi'(x)=0.$

If potential is even, we can even specify
- **Eigenstates must be *even* or *odd*.**

### Slowly varying potentials
Letting $E-V=K$ for KE, we get $\psi''=-\frac{2m}{\hbar^2}K=-\frac{p^2}{\hbar^2}\psi$ by some degen semi-classical allusion. Then $\psi\sim\cos\left(\frac{2\pi}{\lambda}x\right),$ the deBroglie wavelength $\lambda=\frac hp$ of $\psi$. 

Superposition of momentum $\pm p$.

We make the assumption that $\lambda(x)\frac{dV}{dx}\ll V(x).$ Consider classically a ball sliding around on a roller coaster; KE at a point is $E-V$ at that point; with larger KE it's moving faster, and less likely to be found there. Indeed, we find in *semiclassical approximation* that
$$\text{Amp}(\psi(x))\sim\sqrt{\lambda(x)}\sim\frac1{\sqrt{p(x)}}.$$
The semiclassical approximation assumes $\psi$ oscillates a lot before $V$ changes, so we can locally average out the oscillation in $\psi$ (that's quantization for ya).

You can sketch wavefunctions by analyzing sign of $\psi''$ and intercepts &c.
### Shooting Method
In this example, used for even/odd potentials. Our boundary condition is $\Psi(\pm\infty)=0.$ Basically, binary search on possible energies. Begin with $\Psi(0)=1,\Psi'(0)=0$ for even states and $\Psi(0)=0,\Psi'(0)=1$ for odd states.